# Android-Bluetooth-Chat
With the development of digital technologies in recent decades, there have been drastic changes in the mode of communication and usages of digital accessories in our today’s lives. Although internet connections are available even in remote locations, connectivity and internet speed issues prevail. Hence, Bluetooth chat application is an attempt to revoke the old methods of communication and file transfer. The application does not require any Internet connection, it works just with Bluetooth connectivity, which is pre-installed in most devices with the installation Operating Systems, users can send free messages to their friends sitting over the classroom, school playgrounds, when nearby, without a cellular connection or Wi-Fi. This application will be powered by Google’s Android Operating System and the IDE used will be Android Studio. This application will be compatible with the android versions higher than 4.0. Any two devices with Bluetooth enabled within Bluetooth bandwidth can be connected for communication enabling point-to-point and multipoint wireless features so we will absolutely be able to transfer data to other devices in the network circle. The software will be developed as an Interactive and collaborative learning aid with an attractive Graphical User Interface (GUI) which makes the usage of the app more convenient and creative. This Application can be used as an alternative to Short Message Services (SMS) which are otherwise costly and need to be paid for. The communication process that the system exhibits is one-to-many that means users can only chat with the server, which acts as an interface between the other users. Another useful feature of the system is that it maintains all the chat history so one can view it whenever required
